<h1>NNPN Anti-Racism/Anti-Bias Plan and Commitment to Action</h1>


National New Play Network commits to fostering and supporting work that dismantles the structures of cultural racism that are endemic in the new play field and the theater industry at large. NNPN believes that bold action and public accountability are vital to creating a diverse and equitable new play ecosystem that will best support all artists and audiences, and will honor, celebrate, and lift up the work of theater-makers regardless of their race, ethnicity, culture, religion, gender identity, language, sexual orientation, age, neurodiversity and/or disability, and/or economic class, and specifically, artists who are Black, Indigenous, and/or People of Color (BIPOC).

<h3>Acknowledgment</h3> 

Since its founding, National New Play Network has existed in a white-dominant, culturally racist societal structure, and its work has reflected norms that align with those forces. The Network has approached the problem in numerous ways (historically through its programs, awards, and professional development offerings, more recently through increasing intentionality around supporting BIPOC artists) with varying levels of success. However, we acknowledge that in the past we did not make anti-racism and anti-bias work a priority; by resetting the organization to center this work we hope to play a leading role in modeling how our entire field can move forward towards dismantling the systemic biases that have prevented a truly equitable and just American theatre. 

We recognize that we have made mistakes and deeply regret the pain, exclusion, and insecurity that these actions have caused Affiliated Artists, Member Theater staff and/or artists, and/or any other theater-makers, especially BIPOC theater-makers, who have been harmed or excluded from opportunities because of these actions. 

NNPN is grateful for the generosity, time, and expertise of the BIPOC theater-makers and arts advocates who have given of their time and energy to help NNPN in these efforts thus far.

National New Play Network is committed to sharing its journey toward awareness and action with its Member Theaters, constituencies, and other organizations to model and motivate these changes throughout the new play field and the theater, arts, and entertainment industries, and commits to supporting the anti-racism/anti-bias work being done at many of its Member Theaters and by the artists and theater-makers who are leading the way. 

<h3>How the Work Began</h3> 

The Network has wrestled with issues of access in the American theater within its internal workings and those of its Member Theaters from its inception, as evidenced by its work to bring emerging, unsung, and geographically diverse artists into the national spotlight. As the organization matured, professionalized its staff, and increased both the size of its membership and scope of its programs, it became more intentional about inclusion, diversity, and access, working towards gender parity and recognizing artists and works made by, for, about, and with BIPOC communities. NNPN’s online database of new plays, the New Play Exchange® (NPX®), which launched in 2015, was built to help remove barriers of all kinds so that both theater-makers and theater-lovers could access new works without regard to costs, a playwright’s’ pedigree or location, or a play’s previous success. It also allowed for rotating featured lists, often focused on groups of plays written by or featuring BIPOC artists or other traditionally marginalized people, and the use of demographic information so that those looking to discover works by specific artists or for specific casts can filter by gender, race, and ethnicity.

In 2017, while preparing for the 20th anniversary of its founding and beginning the creation of a new strategic plan, NNPN began seriously engaging in a period of self-reflection on the topic of systemic racism and bias, first by gathering information about the makeup of the boards, staff, and artists employed at its Core Member Theaters. The results of this study revealed that while Core Member Theaters are often making work by and with BIPOC artists, the staffs and boards of these institutions are overwhelmingly white. NNPN responded with action, beginning within its own house. 

In late 2017, National New Play Network kicked off its Strategic Planning process with a workshop focused on defining and recognizing systemic racism.  This time, led by consultants Keryl McCord and Lisa Mount of Artistic Logistics, helped NNPN quickly determine that the new plan would need to center this work and that a deep and intentional organizational self-assessment was required. It was also determined that NNPN was in a unique position of privilege at the intersection of artists and institutions in our industry and that is was important that the Network model the robust, equitable, and inclusive ecology we believed the new play field must become.

One year later and many hours of committee, board, staff, membership, and constituency conversations later, NNPN’s Board unanimously passed its FY20-25 Strategic Plan, which is rooted in and centers Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion as practice, not a concept. The Network’s mission, vision, and values were adjusted to reflect the organization’s focus on a “new play ecology that reflects a broad range of aesthetics” and the belief that a “commitment to diverse stories, artists, audiences, institutions, and leadership is essential to an equitable new play field.” 

The Network determined that it would focus its initial work primarily on racial diversity and that this work will serve as the basis from which other disparities will be addressed. The Board voted to dissolve and reformulate under a new governance model and bylaws to seat a Board of Directors comprised of at least 50% BIPOC theater-makers by 2025 and a Core Membership that will include at least 30% Theaters of Color (TOC: organizations that self-identify as making theater primarily by, for, about, and with BIPOC people and communities) by the same year. Additional programmatic and field advocacy goals were ratified in the Strategic Plan, the Executive Summary of which is here.  
National New Play Network’s FY20 – 25 Strategic Plan established 5-year goals for the diversification of all decision-making positions and processes, understanding that the only true way forward must include all aspects of the organization. For NNPN these initiatives, beginning with governance and including how the Network and its benefits are accessed and distributed, must include diversity and representation at every level of its structure for power to be redistributed in a way that is worthy of being seen as a model for significant and sustainable field-wide change. 


<h3>Where We Are Now</h3> 

Since the new FY20 – 25 Strategic Plan was passed and began (August 1, 2019) NNPN has also taken the following actions:

* NNPN is examining its every activity, program, and award through the lens of this commitment. In FY20 both of its Commissions, half of its National Showcase of New Plays featured slots, 50% of its Residencies, and 40% of its Fellowships5 went to BIPOC artists and other theater-makers who have traditionally been excluded from positions of privilege or power.
* NNPN has built compensation for all adjudicators into every program budget and reached its initial goal of having program decision-making panels include no less than 30%5 BIPOC theater-makers in Year One of the 5-year plan.
* The FY21 Board of Directors is comprised of 47% leaders of color, nearly reaching the FY25 goal of 50% BIPOC members.
* New Play Exchange® has begun regularly highlighting lists of works by BIPOC, LGBTQ+, and disabled playwrights and added to its robust search mechanism (which already includes searches by gender, race, ethnicity, and sexual identity) a “one-click” search button for plays that “center characters of color” or “centers LGBTQ characters” to make those stories easily discoverable.
*	The Network has completed comprehensive revisions to its Core and Associate Membership eligibility requirements and benefits and has begun building relationships with non-Member TOCs and its sister service organizations (TCG, APASO, CAATA, Black Theatre Commons, Latinx Theatre Commons, MENATMA, and various other formal and informal organizations) that support TOCs, BIPOC theater-makers, and other under-produced or marginalized artists.
* NNPN has established both BIPOC and White Anti-Racist Affinity Groups to facilitate knowledge gathering and sharing, support, and collegiality. 

<h3>Upcoming Actions</h3>

With a foundation of anti-racism/anti-bias values and a commitment to set an anti-racist standard for the rest of the industry, NNPN pledges to take the following actions over the next 12 months - including dedicating resources in the FY21 budget to do so - and recognizes that this is an early step in what will be an ongoing movement to create new systems in our field that dismantle racism and other forms of oppression:

* NNPN recognizes its position of leadership in the field and pledges to serve as a model for other organizations with its commitment to anti-racism/anti-bias work and the policies and practices that result from this work.
* NNPN will approve and publish this anti-racism/anti-bias statement and action plan prominently on its website, publications, social media, and in external documents as appropriate.
* NNPN will require all Core and Associate Member Theaters to develop anti-racism/anti-bias statements to be ratified by their staffs and boards and publicly shared, by no later than June 30, 2021.
* NNPN’s BIPOC and White Anti-Racist Affinity Groups will continue to be given space and resources to meet regularly, communicate directly to NNPN leadership, and practice facilitated restorative justice when necessary to hold Member Theaters accountable for racist behaviors.
* NNPN will complete and publish a plan for recruiting TOCs into Core Membership towards the already stated goal having the Core Member Theaters be at least 30% TOC by 2025. 
* Through its virtual and in-person meetings and convenings, NNPN will provide resources and space for its Member Theaters to transform themselves into anti-racist arts institutions that are rooted in, responsive to, and in service of their communities.
* The Program Evaluation Working Group will continue its work, re-evaluating programs to increase access to and build accountability for Member Theaters and to ensure that harm is not perpetrated against BIPOC, trans, and/or disabled theater-makers in any NNPN-supported activity.
* As part of the development of NPX 2.0, we will be building new features designed to amplify the work of artists with disabilities. We will continue to promote the adoption of the tool by BIPOC users, and we will continue to prioritize highlighting works by BIPOC, trans, and/or disabled playwrights.
* NNPN will establish and activate programs to incentivize Member Theaters to program their spaces post-COVID-19 shutdowns with works by BIPOC, trans and disabled artists. This program might include, for example, paid cultural consultants who would work with Predominately White Member Theaters producing BIPOC work to ensure safe, authentic, and ethical practices, support for TOCs wishing to expand their new play offerings, or awards to theaters that reopen with plays by BIPOC artists, surrounded by creative teams of the same.
* NNPN commits to advocating for public policy that dismantles racism and other biases in support of BIPOC and other traditionally marginalized theater-makers and institutions.
* NNPN will also incentivize and support theaters in developing and implementing anti-racism/anti-bias practices in their production of new plays by/for/with/about BIPOC theater-makers.
* NNPN’s Board will activate its Board-led committee devoted to Human Resources to assist Staff as it continues to audit its current organizational structure to identify and eradicate practices and policies based on cultural racism from all aspects of its operations. 
* Staff will work with this Board committee to build short and long-term growth and succession plans for staffing, creating space for future leadership to continue the organization’s transformation.  
* Staff leadership commits to make all new hires through anti-racist hiring and onboarding processes.
* NNPN recognizes that this document will need consistent review and commits updating its actions for accountability at least-twice annually.
* NNPN commits to quarterly audits of progress, successes, and failures toward these action items, and the sharing of those results with all its constituencies twice annually at its regular convenings and publicly upon request and in its Annual Report. 
