---
title: "NNPN Announces the Rolling World Premiere of WILD HORSES by Allison Gregory"
type: "news"
date: 2017-06-28
---

<p><span class="lead-in"><strong>Washington, D.C.</strong> - <a href="http://nnpn.org/" rel="nofollow"><strong>National New Play Network</strong></a><strong>, the country's alliance of nonprofit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays, announces </strong><a href="https://newplayexchange.org/plays/16140/wild-horses" rel="nofollow"><strong><em>Wild Horses</em></strong></a> <strong>by </strong><a href="https://newplayexchange.org/users/1848/allison-gregory" rel="nofollow"><strong>Allison Gregory</strong></a><strong> as its 72nd Rolling World Premiere. </strong>The play will receive four productions, kicking off at NNPN Core Member <a href="http://catf.org/wild-horses-allison-gregory/" rel="nofollow"><strong>Contemporary American Theater Festival</strong></a> (Shepherdstown, WV, July 7-30, 2017), and followed by Associate Members <a href="http://www.jccrochester.org/programs-services/by-type/arts-culture/centerstage-theatre/cat.listevents/2017/06/29/-" rel="nofollow"><strong>JCC CenterStage</strong></a> (Rochester, NY, September 9-23, 2017), <a href="http://vortexrep.org/" rel="nofollow"><strong>The VORTEX</strong></a> (Austin, TX, November 16-December 9, 2017), and finishing up at Core Member <a href="http://www.njrep.org/" rel="nofollow"><strong>New Jersey Repertory Company</strong></a> (Long Branch, February 22-March 25, 2017).</span></p>
<p>NNPN provides production support to the playwright and the partnering theaters, including assistance with the creation and the contracting of the premiere agreement, collaborative interactions between the theaters, and funds for the playwright's residency in each city to further develop the play.</p>
<h3>ABOUT <em>WILD HORSES</em></h3>
<p>It’s the 70’s, there’s music and make-outs, and freedom is just out of reach. A savagely-funny play about a threshold summer that forever alters an adolescent girl, as portrayed by her grown-up self. Complex and timeless, this is a coming-of-age story for all generations. The pathos and hubris of her teenage years, the struggle for identity, independence, and authenticity, and the desire to find her place in a complicated world — it all come rushing at us as she takes us on the ride of her life.</p>
<h3>ABOUT ALLISON GREGORY</h3>
<p>Allison Gregory is a playwright and theatre collaborator. Her plays have been produced all over the country, and she has received commissions, grants, and development from Oregon Shakespeare Festival, South Coast Repertory, The Kennedy Center, Indiana Repertory Theatre, the Skirball-Kenis Foundation, ACT Theatre, Seattle Repertory Theatre, Orlando Shakespeare, The New Harmony Project, The Empty Space, Hedgebrook, Seattle’s Arts and Cultural Affairs, LATC, Northwest Playwright’s Alliance, Amphibian Stage Productions, National New Play Network (NNPN), Theatre <a href="mailto:Lab@FAU" rel="nofollow">Lab@FAU</a>, and Austin Scriptworks. Her work has been the recipient of the Julie Harris Playwriting Award &amp; South Coast Repertory’s Playwright’s Award, Garland &amp; Dramalogue Awards, Seattle Times Best New Play Awards, Carbonell nominations, as well as finalists for the O’Neill, Bay Area Playwright’s Festival, Great Plains, and American Blues Blue Ink Award. Her play <em>Not Medea</em> received National New Play Network (NNPN) Rolling World Premieres at B Street Theatre, Contemporary American Theatre Festival, and Perseverance Theatre in 2016. <em>Motherland</em> was selected for the 2016 NNPN Showcase Conference in Austin. Her plays are published by Playscripts, Smith &amp; Krauss, Dramatic Publishing, and Rain City Press. Allison will be a Core Writer with The Playwright’s Center beginning July 2017.  She grew up in California, and now splits her time between Austin and Seattle. <a href="http://allisongregoryplays.com/" rel="nofollow">allisongregoryplays.com</a></p>
<h3>ABOUT CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN THEATER FESTIVAL</h3>
<p>The Contemporary American Theater Festival, founded by Producing Director Ed Herendeen in 1991, is dedicated to producing and developing new American theater. It is hosted on the campus of Shepherd University, a state liberal arts institution located in Shepherdstown, West Virginia. CATF intersperses established voices with emerging ones and is committed to telling diverse stories. To date, it has produced 115 new plays, including 43 world premieres, and 10 commissions. To date, it has produced 115 new plays, including 43 world premieres, and 10 commissions.</p>
<p>CATF is a well-respected playwrights’ forum, with a bent toward championing challenging, culturally relevant work. <a href="http://catf.org/" rel="nofollow">catf.org</a></p>
<h3>ABOUT JCC CENTERSTAGE</h3>
<p>JCC CenterStage began in 1977 as the volunteer theatre company at the Rochester Jewish Community Center. Under the leadership of Artistic Director Ralph Meranto since 2005, CenterStage is now a professional theatre utilizing the finest local actors, directors, and designers to present a 5-show subscription series of plays and musicals. <a href="http://www.jccrochester.org/events/special-events/centerstage-theatre/cat.listevents/2017/06/29/-" rel="nofollow">jccrochester.org</a></p>
<h3>ABOUT THE VORTEX</h3>
<p>We conjure and navigate the storm of imagination with urgent, unashamed art that dares to dream the world in which we want to live. This magic emanates from our cultural harbor, embraces diverse communities, breaks down barriers, and opens channels for vital exchange. The VORTEX creates and presents new, innovative performances—world premiere plays, operas, musicals, ritual theatre, and devised collaborations. The VORTEX transgresses conventional theatrical forms with multidisciplinary performances from diverse traditions. Music, film, dance, opera, aerial arts, puppetry, and performance art contribute to our vibrant theatre. We are an artist-owned and operated theater and have produced over 350 productions. We are proud to have always engaged in non-traditional casting. The VORTEX has presented work by dozens of famous cutting-edge artists and is internationally renowned as a haven for alternative performance. Our work has received more than 100 major awards and hundreds of nominations for artistic excellence in production, design, acting, performance, directing, playwriting, choreography, and musical composition. <a href="http://vortexrep.org/" rel="nofollow">vortexrep.org</a></p>
<h3>ABOUT NEW JERSEY REPERTORY COMPANY</h3>
<p>The New Jersey Repertory Company is a professional, non-profit theater founded in 1997 by SuzAnne Barabas (Artistic Director) and Gabor Barabas (Executive Producer). Located in Long Branch, New Jersey, the theater's primary mission is to develop and produce new plays and to make a lasting contribution to the American stage. In addition, it also seeks to achieve the following: to be a catalyst in the redevelopment and revitalization of its surrounding community; to build and encourage young audiences and inspire interest in theater arts among young people; and to nurture the work of writers from diverse backgrounds and build diverse audiences. <a href="http://www.njrep.org/" rel="nofollow">njrep.org</a></p>
