---
title: "NNPN Adds Cleveland Public Theatre and Miracle Theatre Group as New Core Members"
type: "news"
date: 2014-06-23
---

<p><span class="lead-in"><strong>WASHINGTON, DC - </strong>The NATIONAL NEW PLAY NETWORK (NNPN), the country’s alliance of non-profit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays, <strong>has</strong> <strong>added its 28th and 29th Core Members,</strong> <strong>Cleveland Public Theatre </strong>and<strong> Miracle Theatre Group (Milagro)</strong>. The decision was made by the organization’s Board of Directors at its Annual Conference on June 12 in Charlotte, NC hosted by Core Member Actor’s Theatre of Charlotte.</span></p>
<p>"We are thrilled to welcome Milagro and Cleveland Public to the Network,” says NNPN Executive Director Nan Barnett. “Each brings a new dimension to the organization, not only as two new geographic points for the Network, but also as points of view, since both the devised work that CPT often produces and the global viewpoint that Milagro brings are welcome additions to our membership." CPT and Milagro’s membership in the Network makes them eligible for all of NNPN’s programs, including the opportunity to apply for grants totaling tens of thousands of dollars, Playwright and Producer Residencies, Commissions, and the Continued Life of New Plays Fund.</p>
<p><strong>Cleveland Public Theatre’s</strong> mission is to nurture compassion and raise consciousness through ground-breaking performance and life-changing education programs. CPT produces 10+ adventurous shows a year, mostly world premieres, with a strong emphasis on bold aesthetics and extraordinary approaches to theater. CPT celebrates equity with a diverse season, typically with 50% or more plays by women. CPT is known for devising works with professional ensembles and is a member of the network of ensemble theaters. CPT engages communities in creating original work through Teatro Publico de Cleveland and its education programs that serve residents of public housing, low-income youth and homeless adults in transition. <a href="http://www.cptonline.org/" rel="nofollow">http://www.cptonline.org/</a></p>
<p><strong>Milagro's</strong> mission is to provide extraordinary Latino theatre, culture and arts education experiences for the enrichment of all communities. Its vision: a community-centered Latino arts epicenter inspiring a new generation of art, artists and patrons from around the world. For over 30 years it has been the heart of Latino theatre, arts and culture for the Pacific Northwest. By creating authentic and accessible arts experiences for and about the diverse Latino community, Milagro gives voice to issues affecting that community by focusing on Latino art and culture in a typically non-Latino region; creating and supporting new work that is bilingual, multidisciplinary and touring; and providing connection to Latino artists and works through production, exchange and translation. <a href="http://milagro.org/" rel="nofollow">http://milagro.org/</a></p>
