---
title: "October is an NNPN Rolling World Premiere Bonanza, With Productions From New York to Alaska"
type: "news"
date: 2016-10-24
---

<p><span class="lead-in"><strong>Washington, D.C.</strong> - (The) <a href="http://nnpn.org/" rel="nofollow"><strong>National New Play Network</strong></a><strong>, the country's alliance of nonprofit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays, celebrates an October filled with NNPN Rolling World Premieres (RWP)</strong>, including <a href="https://newplayexchange.org/plays/27367/bars-and-measures" rel="nofollow"><em>Bars and Measures</em></a> by <a href="http://www.idrisgoodwin.com/" rel="nofollow">Idris Goodwin</a> at <a href="https://web.ovationtix.com/trs/pr/953332" rel="nofollow">The Theatre @ Boston Court</a> (playing until October 23); <em>Pulp</em> by <a href="https://newplayexchange.org/users/3924/joseph-zettelmaier" rel="nofollow">Joseph Zettelmaier</a> at <a href="http://www.williamstontheatre.org/blue-door/pulp" rel="nofollow">Williamston Theatre</a> (playing until October 23) and <a href="http://knowtheatre.com/pulp/" rel="nofollow">Know Theatre of Cincinnati</a> (playing until October 27); <a href="https://newplayexchange.org/plays/16143/not-medea" rel="nofollow"><em>Not Medea</em></a> by <a href="http://allisongregoryplays.com/" rel="nofollow">Allison Gregory</a> at <a href="http://www.ptalaska.org/juneau/not-medea/" rel="nofollow">Perseverance Theatre</a> (playing in Juneau until November 6 and Anchorage November 11-20); <a href="https://newplayexchange.org/plays/30860/beautiful-north" rel="nofollow"><em>Into the Beautiful North</em></a> by <a href="http://www.karenzacarias.com/" rel="nofollow">Karen Zacarias</a> at <a href="http://centralworks.org/into-the-beautiful-north/" rel="nofollow">Central Works </a>(playing until November 13); and <a href="https://newplayexchange.org/plays/7151/church-state" rel="nofollow"><em>Church and State</em></a> by <a href="http://www.jasonodellwilliams.com/" rel="nofollow">Jason Odell Williams</a> at <a href="http://jccrochester.org/events/special-events/centerstage-theatre" rel="nofollow">JCC CenterStage</a> (Oct 22 - Nov 6).</span></p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT <em>BARS AND MEASURES</em></strong></h6>
<p>Commissioned by B Street Theatre, <em>Bars and Measures</em> is the fascinating tale of two brothers. One a classical pianist. The other a jazz bass player. One a Christian. The other a Muslim. One living in freedom. The other in jail. Separated by bars, the brothers try to reconcile their differences through the language they know best. Music. A beautiful journey through faith, family, melody and time.</p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT IDRIS GOODWIN</strong></h6>
<p>Idris Goodwin is a playwright, rapper, and essayist. His plays include <em>How We Got On</em>, <em>Remix 38</em> (Actors Theater of Louisville); <em>And in this Corner: Cassius Clay</em> (StageOne Family Theater), <em>This is Modern Art</em> (Steppenwolf), <em>Blackademics</em> (MPAACT, Crowded Fire). Goodwin is one of the six playwrights featured in <em>Hands Up</em> an anthology commissioned by The New Black Fest and presented across the country. Upcoming world premiere productions include <em>The Realness</em> (Merrimack Theatre) and <em>The Raid</em> (Jackalope Theater). He is the recipient of Oregon Shakespeare’s American History Cycle Commission and InterAct Theater’s 20/20 Award. Goodwin has been a writer in residence at Berkeley Rep's Ground Floor Program, The Lark Playwriting Center and New Harmony Project. An accomplished Hip Hop poet, his albums include <em>Break Beat Poems</em> and <em>Rhyming While Black</em>. Goodwin was featured on HBO, Sesame Street, and Discovery Channel. He is the author of the pushcart nominated essay collection <em>These are the Breaks</em> (Write Bloody, 2011). Idris is the co-host and contributor to <em>Critical Karaoke</em>, a radio show and podcast about music and culture. Idris teaches performance writing and Hip Hop aesthetics at Colorado College. <a href="http://www.idrisgoodwin.co/" rel="nofollow">idrisgoodwin.co</a></p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT THE THEATRE @ BOSTON COURT</strong></h6>
<p>Based in Pasadena, CA, The Theatre @ Boston Court produces passionate, artist-driven theatre that challenges both artist and audience, urging its artists to fearlessly and passionately pursue their unique voice and passion. Play selection encompasses a wide variety of genres (with a special emphasis on nurturing playwrights and new play development), which are inherently theatrical, textually rich, and visually arresting. The Theatre @ Boston Court has produced new plays by playwrights such as Luis Alfaro, Sheila Callaghan, Julia Cho, Dan Dietz, Jason Grote, Jordan Harrison, Carlos Murillo, Laura Schellhardt, Octavio Solis, Deborah Stein, Jean Claude Van Itallie, Kathryn Walat, David Wiener, among many others.  <u>bostoncourt.com</u></p>
<blockquote><p><em>“Goodwin's facility with the tools of writing could well make him important by the time he's finished.”</em><br />Graydon Royce, <em>Star Tribune</em></p>
</blockquote>
<h6><strong>ABOUT <em>PULP</em></strong></h6>
<p>In 1930’s Los Angeles, washed-up PI Frank Ellery takes on the strangest case of his life. A noted literary agent has been gruesomely murdered, and the four suspects are his remaining clients, all writers for different pulp magazines. Frank dives into the mystery, and his world turns upside down as life begins to imitate literature. In this new comedy, science fiction, romance, adventure, and horror combine with one down-on-his-luck gumshoe who’s about to learn what really lurks between the lines.</p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT JOSEPH ZETTELMAIER</strong></h6>
<p>Joseph Zettelmaier is a Michigan-based playwright and four-time nominee for the Steinberg/American Theatre Critics Association Award for best new play, first in 2006 for <em>All Childish Things</em>, then in 2007 for <em>Language Lessons</em>, in 2010 for <em>It Came From </em>Mars and in 2012 for <em>Dead Man’s Shoes</em>. Other plays include <em>Ebenezer</em>, <em>And The Creek Don’t Rise</em>, <em>The All Childish Things Trilogy</em>, <em>Dr. Seward’s Dracula</em>, <em>Snow Angels</em>, <em>Blackwater Ballad</em>, <em>Night Blooming</em>, <em>Point of Origin</em>, and <em>The Stillness Between Breaths</em>. <em>Point of Origin</em> won Best Locally Created Script 2002 from the Ann Arbor News, and <em>The Stillness Between Breaths</em> also won Best New Play 2005 from the Oakland Press. <em>The Stillness Between Breaths</em> and <em>It Came From Mars</em> were selected to appear in the National New Play Network’s National Showcase of New Plays. He also co-authored <em>Flyover, USA: Voices From Men of the Midwest</em> at the Williamston Theatre (Winner of the 2009 Thespie Award for Best New Script). He also adapted <em>Christmas Carol’d</em> for the Performance Network. <em>It Came From Mars</em> was a recipient of 2009’s Edgerton Foundation New American Play Award, and won Best New Script 2010 from the Lansing State Journal. His play <em>Dead Man’s Shoes</em> won the Edgerton Foundation New American Play Award in 2011. He is an Artistic Associate at First Folio Theatre, an Artistic Ambassador to the National New Play Network and an adjunct lecturer at Eastern Michigan University, where he teaches Dramatic Composition. <a href="http://www.jzettelmaier.com/" rel="nofollow">jzettelmaier.com</a></p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT WILLIAMSTON THEATRE</strong></h6>
<p>The Williamston Theatre’s mission is to produce professional theater that excites and engages our audiences while challenging us all to explore our lives. This mission statement is supported by the following objectives: to be an integral part of the cultural fabric of Michigan; to pursue innovative collaboration in every aspect of our work; to establish a home for Midwest artists; to engage audiences of diverse ages, cultures, and economic backgrounds. <a href="http://www.williamstontheatre.com/wp/" rel="nofollow">williamstontheatre.com</a></p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT KNOW THEATRE OF CINCINNATI</strong></h6>
<p>The Know showcases unexpected voices, new works, and plays that embrace the inherent theatricality of the live experience. Know Theatre seeks to be a place where artists and audiences feel welcome to take artistic risks, creating work that is cutting edge and accessible. <a href="http://knowtheatre.com/" rel="nofollow">knowtheatre.com</a></p>
<blockquote><p><em>“…full of snappy dialogue and more twists and turns than a snake in a blender…”</em><br />John Monaghan, <em>Detroit Free Press</em></p>
</blockquote>
<h6><strong>ABOUT</strong> <strong><em>NOT MEDEA</em></strong></h6>
<p>This heartbreakingly beautiful new work by the award-winning playwright of <em>Forcing Hyacinths</em> straddles the world of myth, magic and the deeply personal story of one woman. Fiercely funny and brutally raw, her story is one of love, tragedy, and ultimately, hope.</p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT ALLISON GREGORY</strong></h6>
<p>Allison Gregory is a playwright and theater collaborator. Her plays have been produced all over the country and she has received commissions, grants, and development from Oregon Shakespeare Festival, South Coast Repertory, The Kennedy Center, Indiana Repertory Theatre, the Skirball-Kenis Foundation, ACT Theatre, Seattle Repertory Theatre, The Empty Space, Seattle’s Arts and Cultural Affairs, LATC, The New Harmony Project, Seattle Dramatists, Northwest Playwright’s Alliance, Amphibian Stage Productions, ZACH Theatre, and Austin Scriptworks. Her work has been the recipient of the Julie Harris Playwriting Award (<em>Forcing Hyacinths</em>), South Coast Repertory Theatre’s Playwrights Award (<em>Forcing Hyacinths</em>), Garland &amp; Dramalogue Awards (<em>Fall Off Night</em>, Breathing Room, L.A.), and Seattle Times Best New Play Award (<em>Burning Bridget Cleary</em>), as well as finalists for the O’Neill Playwright’s Conference, Bay Area Playwright’s Festival, and Harriet Lake PlayFest. Her play. <em>uncertain terms</em> was developed at Hedgebrook Women Playwright’s Festival and premiered at ArtsGarage, directed by Louis Tyrrell. She is currently working on a play about race and motherhood in America, titled <em>Motherland, </em>which has been chosen as part of the 2016 National Showcase of New Plays.<br /><br />Allison also writes for young audiences; those plays include <em>Go Dog. Go!</em>, adapted from the P.D. Eastman book, co-written with Steven Dietz; <em>Even Steven Goes to War</em> (“Zoni” Best New Script Award; AATE and UPRP awards; Kennedy Center New Visions/New Voices selection); <em>Peter and the Wolf</em> (National tour), and <em>Junie B. in Jingle Bells, Batman Smells!</em> (over 150 professional productions). Her play <em>Ronia: the Robber’s Daughter</em>, adapted from Astrid Lindgren’s story, was recently licensed internationally and premiered at Teatr Pinokio in Poland, and <em>Junie B. is Not A Crook</em>, adapted from the beloved book series by Barbara Park, will premiere this fall at Childsplay. Her plays are published by Playscripts, Smith &amp; Krauss, Dramatic Publishing, and Rain City Press.<br /><br />Allison is an alumni of LATC’S Wordsmiths, and a former Hedgebrook resident. She lives in Austin where she is the co-founder of Austin ‘Wrights, an awesome playwright collective. <a href="http://allisongregoryplays.com/" rel="nofollow">allisongregoryplays.com</a></p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT PERSEVERANCE THEATRE</strong></h6>
<p>Perseverance Theatre’s mission is to create professional theatre by and for Alaskans. We value community engagement, cross-cultural collaboration, professional rigor, and regional voice. The theatre was founded in Juneau, Alaska in 1979 by Molly Smith, and today is led by Executive Artistic Director, Art Rotch. Perseverance Theatre has grown over 38 years into Alaska’s largest professional theatre, serving over 25,000 artists, students, and audiences annually. The theatre prioritizes education and training programs for youth and adults, providing learning opportunities across the state, and as the resident theatre at the University of Alaska Southeast. Perseverance has an established actor-in-residence program and beginning in 2016, a new playwright-in-residence funded by a grant from the Andrew W. Mellon foundation.  At Perseverance Theatre, we believe theatre-going creates community. It fosters empathy, builds relationships, cultivates our ability to interact with each other, and in so doing – better equips us all to work out problems and create more vital and just communities.  In the upcoming 2016-2017 season, Perseverance Theatre is producing musical, contemporary, and world premiere productions in Juneau and Anchorage. <a href="http://www.ptalaska.org/" rel="nofollow">ptalaska.org</a></p>
<blockquote><p><em>“Intense but often funny, “Not Medea” is a resonant meditation on guilt, alienation, resilience and double standards for men and women.”</em><br />Celia Wren, <em>The Washington Post</em></p>
</blockquote>
<h6><strong>ABOUT <em>INTO THE BEAUTIFUL NORTH</em></strong></h6>
<p>Inspired by the classic film <em>The Magnificent Seven</em>, Nayeli, a young woman living in a small Mexican village, and her companions venture across the border determined to bring back seven good men to protect their village from the invasion of narco-traficantes and the risk of extinction.</p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT KAREN ZACARÍAS</strong></h6>
<p>Karen Zacarías is one of the most produced Latina playwrights in the nation. She is one of the inaugural Resident Playwrights at Arena Stage in Washington, DC, and is a core founder of the LATINO THEATRE COMMONS. She is the founder of Young Playwrights’ Theater, an award-winning theater company that teaches playwriting in local public schools in Washington, DC. <a href="http://www.karenzacarias.com/" rel="nofollow">karenzacarias.com</a></p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT CENTRAL WORKS</strong></h6>
<p>Central Works’ mission is to enrich the cultural environment of our community through the collaborative development and production of new plays for the theater. We are “The New Play Theater.” We write, develop, and produce world premieres, offering our community daring, intimate productions at affordable prices. We bring local theater artists together as partners in the creation and development of challenging new works while maintaining the highest standards of professionalism and excellence. We think globally, and <em><u>act</u></em> locally: we make plays. <a href="http://centralworks.org/" rel="nofollow">centralworks.org</a></p>
<blockquote><p><em>“Into the Beautiful North will leave you saddened, entertained and moved. What more can you ask for?”</em><br />C. Brousse, <em>Pacific Sun</em></p>
</blockquote>
<h6><strong>ABOUT</strong> <strong><em>CHURCH &amp; STATE</em></strong></h6>
<p>Three days before his bid for re-election in North Carolina, a Republican U.S. Senator makes an off-the-cuff comment to a blogger that calls into question the senator's belief in God. As his devoutly Christian wife and liberal Jewish campaign manager try to contain the damage. This look at how religion, guns, and social media influence our political system is both brutally honest and shockingly funny. Will the fall-out destroy the senator’s career… or change the world?</p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT JASON ODELL WILLIAMS</strong></h6>
<p>Jason Odell Williams is an Emmy® Award-nominated writer and producer (“Brain Games”) as well as an award-winning playwright, novelist, and screenwriter. His play <em>Handle With Care</em> (published by Dramatists Play Service) ran for over 100 performances Off-Broadway and has been produced 18 times in the last five years in the U.S. and Canada. The play was a <em>New York Times</em> Critics’ Pick where they raved, “Mr. Williams has achieved something special: He has written a hilarious and heartwarming romantic comedy...which exudes gobs of comic energy and insight.” His other plays have been produced or developed at NC Stage, the cell, the DR2, Primary Stages, The Blank Theatre, The Lark, and EST. Jason’s first novel, <em>Personal Statement</em>, was optioned for a three-picture deal and he is currently adapting it for the screen with his wife and collaborator Charlotte Cohn. Their TV script, <em>Birdland</em>, was a Top 10 Finalist in The Tracking Board’s 2015 Pilot Competition. They live in Manhattan with their daughter Imogen and their rescued dog, Pepper.</p>
<h6><strong>ABOUT JCC CENTERSTAGE</strong></h6>
<p><a href="http://jccrochester.org/programs-services/by-type/arts-culture/centerstage-theatre/cat.listevents/2016/05/28/-" rel="nofollow">CenterStage</a> began in 1977 as the volunteer theatre company at the Rochester Jewish Community Center. Under the leadership of Artistic Director Ralph Meranto since 2005, CenterStage is now a professional theatre utilizing the finest local actors, directors, and designers to present a 5-show subscription series of plays and musicals.</p>
<blockquote><p><em>“subtle and gripping entertainment…”</em><br />F. Kathleen Foley, <em>The Los Angeles Times</em></p>
</blockquote>
