---
title:  "The Rolling World Premiere Of RED BIKE Comes to The Wilbury Theatre Group"
type:   "news"
date:   2019-02-20
---

National New Play Network, the country's alliance of nonprofit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays, announces the continuation of its 80th Rolling World Premiere (RWP) production. Red Bike by Caridad Svich opens at The Wilbury Theatre Group (Providence, R.I.) on February 21 and runs through March 3. Other Partner Theatres for this RWP were Simpatico Theatre(Philadelphia), Pygmalion Productions (Salt Lake City), and Know Theatre of Cincinnati. Red Bike was presented at NNPN's 2017 National Showcase of New Plays, hosted by Orlando Shakespeare Theatre.

An NNPN Rolling World Premiere (RWP) models a process for developing and producing new plays that results in stronger work overall and the momentum needed for a play to join the repertoire of frequently produced new American works. Each Rolling World Premiere connects three or more NNPN Member Theaters that choose to mount the same new play within a 12-month period, allowing the playwright to develop the work with a new creative team in each theater's community. To date, NNPN has championed RWPs with over one million dollars in financial support. Alumni plays have received hundreds of subsequent productions, recognition in markets across the world, been nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, won Steinberg/ATCA, Stavis, PEN and Blackburn awards, and been adapted into feature films.

What kind of future will you have living in these here United States? Remember when you were eleven years old and you had a bike, one that made you dream about a world bigger than the one in which you live? This is that memory. Except it is now.

Caridad Svich received a 2012 OBIE Award for Lifetime Achievement in the theatre, a 2017-18 Visiting Fellow at Royal Central School of Speech and Drama, a 2012 Edgerton Foundation New Play Award and NNPN Rolling World Premiere for Guapa, and the 2011 American Theatre Critics Association Primus Prize for her play The House of the Spirits, based Isabel Allende's novel. She has been short-listed for the PEN Award in Drama four times. Key works in her repertoire include 12 Ophelias, Iphigenia Crash Land Falls on the Neon Shell That Was Once Her Heart, Fugitive Pieces, Alchemy of Desire/Dead-Man's Blues, The Way of Water, and Red Bike (currently receiving an NNPN Rolling World Premiere 2018-2019). She has also adapted for the stage novels by Mario Vargas Llosa, Julia Alvarez and Jose Leon Sanchez, and has radically reconfigured works from Wedekind, Euripides, Sophocles, and Shakespeare. As a theatrical translator, she has translated nearly all the plays of Federico Garcia Lorca, and works by Lope De Vega, Calderon de la Barca, and contemporary works from Spain, Mexico and Cuba. She has also edited several books on theatre and performance, among them Fifty Playwrights on Their Craft (Methuen Drama, 2017) and Audience Revolution (TCG, 2016). She is published by Intellect Books, Seagull Books, Broadway Play Publishing, Manchester University Press, Smith & Kraus and Playscripts. She is alumna playwright of New Dramatists, contributing editor of Contemporary Theatre Review, drama editor of Asymptote literary translation journal, contributing editor of TheatreForum and an affiliated artist of EST, Lark and New Georges, and is founder of NoPassport theatre alliance and press. She is currently under commission from American Conservatory Theatre, Cleveland Opera Theatre and Oregon Shakespeare Festival, and teaches playwriting at Rutgers University-New Brunswick and Primary Stages Einhorn School of the Arts. caridadsvich.com
