---
title: "The NNPN Rolling World Premiere of PULP by Joseph Zettelmaier Kicks Off at Phoenix Theatre"
type: "news"
date: 2016-02-09
---

<p><span class="lead-in"><strong>Washington, D.C.</strong> - The National New Play Network, the country's alliance of nonprofit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays, announces <em>Pulp</em> by Joseph Zettelmaier as its 53rd Rolling World Premiere. The play will receive three productions at NNPN Core Member Phoenix Theatre (Indianapolis, IN, February 11-March 6, 2016), and Associate Members Williamston Theatre (MI, September 22-October 23, 2016) and Know Theatre of Cincinnati (OH, October 2016).</span></p>
<p><strong>ABOUT <em>PULP</em></strong></p>
<p>In 1930’s Los Angeles, washed-up PI Frank Ellery takes on the strangest case of his life. A noted literary agent has been gruesomely murdered, and the four suspects are his remaining clients, all writers for different pulp magazines. Frank dives into the mystery, and his world turns upside down as life begins to imitate literature. In this new comedy, science fiction, romance, adventure, and horror combine with one down-on-his-luck gumshoe who’s about to learn what really lurks between the lines.</p>
<p><strong>ABOUT JOSEPH ZETTELMAIER</strong></p>
<p><a href="http://jzettelmaier.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Joseph Zettelmaier</a> is a Michigan-based playwright and four-time nominee for the Steinberg/American Theatre Critics Association Award for best new play, first in 2006 for <em>All Childish Things</em>, then in 2007 for <em>Language Lessons</em>, in 2010 for <em>It Came From Mars</em> and in 2012 for <em>Dead Man’s Shoes</em>. Other plays include <em>Ebenezer</em>, <em>And The Creek Don’t Rise</em>, <em>The All Childish Things Trilogy, Dr. Seward’s Dracula</em>, <em>Snow Angels</em>, <em>Blackwater Ballad</em>, <em>Night Blooming</em>, <em>Point of Origin</em>, and <em>The Stillness Between Breaths</em>. <em>Point of Origin</em> won Best Locally Created Script 2002 from the Ann Arbor News, and <em>The Stillness Between Breaths</em> also won Best New Play 2005 from the Oakland Press. <em>The Stillness Between Breaths</em> and <em>It Came From Mars</em> were selected to appear in the National New Play Network’s Festival of New Plays. He also co-authored <em>Flyover, USA: Voices From Men of the Midwest</em> at the Williamston Theatre (Winner of the 2009 Thespie Award for Best New Script). He also adapted <em>Christmas Carol’d</em> for the Performance Network. <em>It Came From Mars</em> was a recipient of 2009’s Edgerton Foundation New American Play Award, and won Best New Script 2010 from the Lansing State Journal. His play <em>Dead Man’s Shoes</em> won the Edgerton Foundation New American Play Award in 2011. He is an Artistic Associate at First Folio Theatre, an Artistic Ambassador to the National New Play Network and an adjunct lecturer at Eastern Michigan University, where he teaches Dramatic Composition. </p>
<p><strong>ABOUT PHOENIX THEATRE</strong></p>
<p>The <a href="http://phoenixtheatre.org" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Phoenix Theatre</a> is Indiana's only professional contemporary theatre, and has presented productions to challenge and entertain the Indianapolis community for over 32 years. The Phoenix strives to expand the community’s exposure to diverse topics and start conversations that lead to positive change; produce vital, engaging plays that deepen and expand our views of a shared humanity; and stimulate conversation and promote diversity via intimate, engaged, and wide-ranging theater. Additionally, the Phoenix aims to move the political bent of the community from the right to the center via theater, and create intimate theatre so powerful and engaging it sparks and leads Indiana’s cultural conversation. </p>
<p><strong>ABOUT WILLIAMSTON THEATRE</strong></p>
<p>The <a href="http://williamstontheatre.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Williamston Theatre</a>’s mission is to produce professional theatre that excites and engages our audiences while challenging us all to explore our lives. This mission statement is supported by the following objectives: to be an integral part of the cultural fabric of Michigan; to pursue innovative collaboration in every aspect of our work; to establish a home for Midwest artists; to engage audiences of diverse ages, cultures and economic backgrounds. </p>
<p><strong>ABOUT KNOW THEATRE OF CINCINNATI</strong></p>
<p>The <a href="http://knowtheatre.com" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Know Theatre</a> showcases unexpected voices, new works, and plays that embrace the inherent theatricality of the live experience. Know Theatre seeks to be a place where artists and audiences feel welcome to take artistic risks, creating work that is cutting edge and accessible. </p>
