---
title: "The NNPN Rolling World Premiere of RELATIVITY by Mark St. Germain Opens at Taproot Theatre Company "
type: "news"
date: 2017-09-16
---

<p><span class="lead-in"><strong>Washington, D.C. - National New Play Network, the country's alliance of nonprofit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays, celebrates the opening of the Rolling World Premiere (RWP) of </strong><a href="https://newplayexchange.org/plays/47088/relativity" rel="nofollow"><strong><em>Relativity</em></strong></a><strong> by </strong><a href="https://newplayexchange.org/users/5493/mark-st-germain" rel="nofollow"><strong>Mark St. Germain</strong></a><strong> at Associate Member </strong><a href="http://taproottheatre.org/shows/2017/relativity/" rel="nofollow"><strong>Taproot Theatre Company</strong></a> (Seattle, WA, September 20-October 21, 2017)<strong>.</strong> The Roll kicked off at NNPN Core Member <a href="https://www.floridastudiotheatre.org/relativity" rel="nofollow">Florida Studio Theatre</a> (Sarasota, FL,), who originally commissioned the play, and continued at <a href="https://riversidetheatre.org/relativity" rel="nofollow">Riverside Theatre</a> (Iowa City, IA, April 14-30, 2017) and Associate Member <a href="https://northlight.org/events/relativity/" rel="nofollow">Northlight Theatre</a> (Skokie, IL,  May 11-June 18, 2017).</span></p>
<p>NNPN provides production support to the playwright and the partnering theaters, including assistance with the creation and the contracting of the premiere agreement, collaborative interactions between the theaters, and funds for the playwright's residency in each city to further develop the play.</p>
<p>Critical acclaim for <em>Relativity</em>:</p>
<blockquote><p>“<em>Relativity </em>is a tightly structured, information-packed 80 minutes, full of all the essential arguments, and…the actors, under the airtight direction of Northlight artistic director BJ Jones, bring total commitment to their portrayals.” –Hedy Weiss, <em><a href="http://chicago.suntimes.com/entertainment/nature-nurture-and-relativity-drive-a-new-play-about-einstein/" rel="nofollow">Chicago Sun-Times</a></em></p>
<p>“The theater’s intimate setting is perfect for this glimpse into the private world of one of the greatest minds the world has known. It’s a play built on ‘what-ifs’ and ‘if onlys’ — those corrosive dramas that unfold in our minds during sleepless nights and can eat away at our souls… It’s a tour de force creation for both actors.” -Diana Nollen, <em><a href="http://www.thegazette.com/subject/life/entertainment/arts/review/review-relativity-crackles-with-energy-mystery-20170414" rel="nofollow">The Gazette</a></em></p>
<p>“These are weighty issues for an 80-minute play without intermission, but St. Germain builds on them with both seriousness and a good amount of humor to make them relatable…” -Jay Handelman, <em><a href="http://ticket.heraldtribune.com/2016/06/25/theater-review-engaging-relativity-at-fst/" rel="nofollow">Herald-Tribune</a></em></p>
</blockquote>
<p><strong>ABOUT </strong><strong><em>RELATIVITY</em></strong></p>
<p>In 1902, Albert Einstein's daughter was born. In 1904 she disappeared and Einstein never spoke nor wrote of her again. What happened? With playfulness and intensity, Relativity imagines one theory that bridges the Einsteins: the beloved public figure to the perplexing private man and the father to the lost child.</p>
<p><strong>ABOUT MARK ST. GERMAIN</strong></p>
<p>Mark has written the plays <em>Freud’s Last Session</em> (Off-Broadway Alliance Best Play), <em>Becoming Dr. Ruth</em>, <em>Camping with Henry and Tom</em> (Outer Critics Circle Award and Lucille Lortel Award), <em>Out of Gas on Lover’s Leap</em>, <em>Best of Enemies</em>, <em>Forgiving Typhoid Mary</em> (<em>Time Magazine</em>’s “Year’s Ten Best”), <em>Ears on a Beatle</em>, <em>The God Committee</em>, and <em>Dancing Lessons</em>.</p>
<p>Mark co-wrote the screenplay for Carroll Ballard’s Warner Brothers film, <em>Duma</em>. He directed and co-produced the documentary, <em>My Dog: An Unconditional Love Story</em>. <em>My Dog</em> features Richard Gere, Lynn Redgrave and Glenn Close among many others. Television credits include Writer and Creative Consultant for <em>The Cosby Show</em>, and Dick Wolf’s <em>Lifestories</em> and <em>Crime and Punishment</em>.</p>
<p>With Randy Courts, he has written the internationally produced musical <em>The Gifts of the Magi</em>, <em>Johnny</em> <em>Pye and the Foolkiller</em>, winner of an AT&amp;T “New Plays for the Nineties” award and <em>Jack’s Holiday</em> at Playwrights Horizons. His musical, <em>Stand by Your Man: The Tammy Wynette Story</em> was created for Nashville’s Ryman Theater and has toured nationally. He co-wrote the libretto for Charles Strouse’s <em>American Tragedy</em>.</p>
<p>Mark wrote the children’s book <em>Three Cups</em>, illustrated by April Willy, published by Thomas Crown. He is an alumnus of New Dramatists, where he was given the Joe A. Callaway Award, a member of the Dramatists Guild, the Writer’s Guild East and an Associate Artist of the Barrington Stage Company. He was awarded the “New Voices in American Theatre” award at the William Inge Theatre Festival. He is represented by Susan Gurman of the Gurman Agency.</p>
<p><strong>ABOUT FLORIDA STUDIO THEATRE</strong></p>
<p>Florida Studio Theatre (FST) is Sarasota’s contemporary theatre, located in the heart of downtown. It has been in operation in Sarasota since 1973. The Florida Studio Theatre campus is a village of theatres – the historic Keating and Gompertz Theatres, the Parisian-style Goldstein and John C. Court Cabarets, and Bowne's Lab Theatre. Near the Sarasota bayfront, FST brings an energy and vitality to the downtown area. Each theatre is small in size and large in impact – providing an intimate and engaging setting for high-quality, professional performances. Hip and historical, entertaining and challenging, we are the theatre where the street meets the elite, where everyone is welcome to come and engage in the art of theatre. <a href="https://www.floridastudiotheatre.org/" rel="nofollow">floridastudiotheatre.org</a></p>
<p><strong>ABOUT RIVERSIDE THEATRE</strong></p>
<p>Riverside Theatre is a professional theatre in Iowa City, IA that connects artists and audiences through intimate, engaging, and provocative productions from the classics to new works, and provides an artistic home for regional theatre professionals. Founded 1981, we’re currently in our 35th season. We believe the shared experience of live theatre is magical and important. Community members, artists and collaborators are our life blood. From September through April we produce a full season of work at our theatre on Gilbert Street. In June and July, we produce a summer season centered around the classics. <a href="https://riversidetheatre.org/" rel="nofollow">riversidetheatre.org</a></p>
<p><strong>ABOUT NORTHLIGHT THEATRE</strong></p>
<p>Northlight Theatre aspires to promote change of perspective and encourage compassion by exploring the depth of our humanity across a bold spectrum of theatrical experiences. Founded in 1974, Northlight is one of the the Chicago area's premiere theatre companies, serving audiences totaling over 50,000 each season. Northlight mounts five mainstage productions each season and also serves nearly 4,000 students in Chicago area schools through our expansive and comprehensive arts education outreach programs. Northlight is a regional magnet for critical and professional acclaim, and has a strong reputation for commissioning, developing, and producing new work through Interplay, our new play development program. <a href="https://northlight.org/" rel="nofollow">northlight.org</a></p>
<p><strong>ABOUT TAPROOT THEATRE COMPANY</strong></p>
<p>Taproot Theatre Company creates theatre experiences to brighten the spirit, engage the mind and deepen the understanding of the world around us while inspiring imagination, conversation and hope. Taproot Theatre Company was founded in 1976 by six friends, five of them graduates from Seattle Pacific University. From its humble beginnings as a touring group, the company is now Seattle’s largest mid-size theatre company. Today Taproot Theatre serves over 150,000 people annually throughout the Pacific Northwest with its Jewell Mainstage season, Isaac Studio Theatre season, Touring programs and Acting Studio. <a href="http://taproottheatre.org/" rel="nofollow">taproottheatre.org</a></p>
