---
title: "The Rolling World Premiere of ON CLOVER ROAD by Steven Dietz Continues at Phoenix Theater and San Francisco Playhouse "
type: "news"
date: 2016-03-03
---

<p><span class="lead-in"><strong>Washington, D.C.</strong> <strong>- The National New Play Network, the country's alliance of nonprofit theaters that champions the development, production, and continued life of new plays,</strong> announces the continuation of the NNPN Rolling World Premiere of <strong><em>On Clover Road</em></strong> by <strong>Steven Dietz</strong>. The play rolls through NNPN Core Member <strong>Phoenix Theatre</strong> (Indianapolis, IN, March 10-April 10 2016) and Associate Member <strong>San Francisco Playhouse</strong> (CA, March 23-April 16, 2016) after a successful launch at the <strong>Contemporary American Theater Festival</strong> (Shepherdstown, WV) last summer.</span></p>
<p>NNPN provides production support to the playwright and the partnering theaters, including assistance with the creation and the contracting of the premiere agreement, collaborative interactions between the theaters, and funds for the playwright's residency in each city to further develop the play.</p>
<p><strong>ABOUT <em>ON CLOVER ROAD</em></strong></p>
<p>Kate Hunter has been searching for her daughter for over four years. Now that she’s been located, Kate must carefully extract her from a cult by trusting a complete stranger to de-program her at an abandoned motel on Clover Road. Will mother and daughter happily reunite? Or will the shadow of a memory she’s held on to for the past four years be all that Kate has left of the daughter she once knew? This thriller will have you guessing, hoping, and left with a strong desire to keep your loved ones close.</p>
<p><strong>ABOUT STEVEN DIETZ</strong></p>
<p>Steven Dietz’s thirty-plus plays and adaptations have been produced in regional theatres and internationally have been seen in England, Japan, Germany, France, Australia, Sweden, Austria, Russia, Slovenia, Argentina, Peru, Greece, Singapore, South Korea and South Africa. He received the Kennedy Center Fund for New American Plays Award for <em>Fiction</em>—produced Off-Broadway by the Roundabout Theatre Company; the PEN USA West Award in Drama for <em>Lonely Planet</em>; the Edgar Award for Best Mystery Play for <em>Sherlock Holmes</em>; <em>The Final Adventure</em>; and the Yomiuri Shimbun Award (the Japanese “Tony”) for his adaptation of Shusaku Endo’s novel, <em>Silence</em>. Other widely produced plays include the Pulitzer-nominated <em>Last of the Boys</em>, <em>Inventing Van Gogh</em>, <em>Private Eyes</em>, <em>God’s Country</em>, <em>Halcyon Days</em>, and <em>The Nina Variations,</em> which premiered at CATF in 1996. CATF produced the National New Play Network Rolling World Premiere of <em>Yankee Tavern</em> in 2008, and his Rancho Mirage premiered through the same NNPN program in 2013.</p>
<p><strong>ABOUT PHOENIX THEATRE</strong></p>
<p>The <a href="http://phoenixtheatre.org" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Phoenix Theatre</a> is Indiana's only professional contemporary theatre, and has presented productions to challenge and entertain the Indianapolis community for over 32 years. The Phoenix strives to expand the community’s exposure to diverse topics and start conversations that lead to positive change; produce vital, engaging plays that deepen and expand our views of a shared humanity; and stimulate conversation and promote diversity via intimate, engaged, and wide-ranging theater. Additionally, the Phoenix aims to move the political bent of the community from the right to the center via theater, and create intimate theatre so powerful and engaging it sparks and leads Indiana’s cultural conversation. </p>
<p><strong>ABOUT SAN FRANCISCO PLAYHOUSE</strong></p>
<p>Founded by Bill English and Susi Damilano as a non-profit 501(c)3 organization in 2003, <a href="http://sfplayhouse.org" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">San Francisco Playhouse</a> is the Bay Area’s fastest-growing theatre company and has been described in the New York Times as “a company that stages some of the most consistently high-quality work around.” Located in the heart of the Union Square Theater District, San Francisco Playhouse is the city’s Off-Broadway company, an intimate alternative to the larger more traditional Union Square theater fare. The San Francisco Playhouse provides audiences the opportunity to experience professional theater with top-notch actors and world-class design in a setting where they are close to the action. The San Francisco Playhouse is committed to providing a creative home and inspiring environment where actors, directors, writers, designers, and theater lovers converge to create works that celebrate the human spirit. </p>
<p><strong>ABOUT CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN THEATER FESTIVAL</strong></p>
<p>The <a href="http://catf.org" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Contemporary American Theater Festival</a>, founded by Producing Director Ed Herendeen in 1991, <strong>is dedicated to producing and developing new American theater.</strong> It is hosted on the campus of Shepherd University, a state liberal arts institution located in Shepherdstown, West Virginia. CATF intersperses established voices with emerging ones and is committed to telling diverse stories. To date, it has produced 110 new plays, including 40 world premieres, by 77 writers, 40% of whom are women—nearly twice the national average. CATF is a well-respected playwrights’ forum, with a bent toward championing challenging, culturally relevant work. </p>
